---
name: i-love-d

subtitle: Digital Mars' D is awesome!
---

Okay, so, there's something I've been needing to confess for some time now. 

I love the D programming language. And I really, really want to shout out about why.

So why?

## Looking Back at C++ Then and Now

D's core functionality is basically like that of C++...except, in my personal opinion, way cleaner. This isn't an accident. Originally, C++ design goals were purely functional - C++ was originally called "C with Classes", designed to be backwards-compatible with C code and actually compiled into pure C code before machine code. It was exactly what it sounds like...C with a class-oriented paradigm retrofitted to be made available. 

Don't get me wrong - this is not a bad thing at all. C++ is something I've seen many despitefully comment on it, but it's so successful because it gave a clear transition to C++ without sacrificing the accessibility that C has to the machine itself. 

Despite the commentary of many detractors, the majority of C++ code I've seen - code that utilizes templates, classes, etc. - is NOT pointer arithmetic. It's abstracted beyond that, because it IS difficult for most humans to intuit.

## Comparing D to C++

It's the same thing with D. D is intended to give close access to the machine **where needed** - but it's definitely not encouraged. Its power is equal to that of C and C++ - in fact, if you want strictly procedural programs, D will support you. You can turn off the garbage collector, you can 

So where does D actually shine?